# Predicting-Useful-Reviews-On-Yelp-Dataset


Yelp online reviews have much influence on users and have an important impact on consumers’ decision making. Users tend to search for reviews from Yelp to get useful information, however, sometimes fail to get relevant, reliable and trustworthy reviews. The reasons are high rating reviews tend to be outdated and latest reviews tend to have low or none of useful votes, and some businesses do not have any reviews that are voted as useful. This is problematic because users and businesses cannot define which is the most relevant review when searching on the review, have difficulty in which reviews they should value the most, and if so, users need to look through lots of reviews to find the newest and most relevant reviews. Hereby, this project aims to predict which review will be rated as useful by using classification algorithm Naïve-Bayes method in order to solve the problems generated by lack of useful reviews. The model was evaluated by accuracy which is the most important measurement for classification models. The project went through trials of adjusting different techniques and parameters, and got 94.5% of accuracy for predicting the useful reviews. As a result, the project could further identify common patterns of useful reviews and the differences between useful and non-useful. The useful reviews tend to include more sentences, detailed experience with examples, use of comparative adjectives and exclamation marks, and less grammatical and spelling errors. Whereas, non-useful reviews had shorter sentences, toneless explanations with more grammatical and spelling errors. With these interesting findings, users and businesses can easily get access to useful reviews, and identifying the useful reviews will enhance effectiveness and efficiency of decision making and business operations. In addition, the findings can be used in the Yelp algorithm to significantly differentiate its user-experience from other review platforms. 
